# 0631 - Design Excel Sum Formula

Difficulty  | Tags | Links | Solutions
----------- | ---- | ----- | -----
Hard |  | [Leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-excel-sum-formula/description/) |


-----------

```
Your task is to design the basic function of Excel and implement the function
of sum formula. Specifically, you need to implement the following functions:

`Excel(int H, char W):` This is the constructor. The inputs represents the
height and width of the Excel form. His a positive integer, range from 1 to
26. It represents the height. W is a character range from 'A' to 'Z'. It
represents that the width is the number of characters from 'A' to W. The Excel
form content is represented by a height * width 2D integer array `C`, it
should be initialized to zero. You should assume that the first row of `C`
starts from 1, and the first column of `C` starts from 'A'.



`void Set(int row, char column, int val):` Change the value at `C(row,
column)` to be val.



`int Get(int row, char column):` Return the value at `C(row, column)`.



`int Sum(int row, char column, List of Strings : numbers):` This function
calculate and set the value at `C(row, column)`, where the value should be the
sum of cells represented by `numbers`. This function return the sum result at
`C(row, column)`. This sum formula should exist until this cell is overlapped
by another value or another sum formula.

`numbers` is a list of strings that each string represent a cell or a range of
cells. If the string represent a single cell, then it has the following format
: `ColRow`. For example, "F7" represents the cell at (7, F).

If the string represent a range of cells, then it has the following format :
`ColRow1:ColRow2`. The range will always be a rectangle, and ColRow1 represent
the position of the top-left cell, and ColRow2 represents the position of the
bottom-right cell.



Example 1:



    Excel(3,"C"); // construct a 3*3 2D array with all zero.//   A B C// 1 0 0 0// 2 0 0 0// 3 0 0 0Set(1, "A", 2);// set C(1,"A") to be 2.//   A B C// 1 2 0 0// 2 0 0 0// 3 0 0 0Sum(3, "C", ["A1", "A1:B2"]);// set C(3,"C") to be the sum of value at C(1,"A") and the values sum of the rectangle range whose top-left cell is C(1,"A") and bottom-right cell is C(2,"B"). Return 4. //   A B C// 1 2 0 0// 2 0 0 0// 3 0 0 4Set(2, "B", 2);// set C(2,"B") to be 2. Note C(3, "C") should also be changed.//   A B C// 1 2 0 0// 2 0 2 0// 3 0 0 6



Note:

  1. You could assume that there won't be any circular sum reference. For example, A1 = sum(B1) and B1 = sum(A1).
  2. The test cases are using double-quotes to represent a character.
  3. Please remember to RESET your class variables declared in class Excel, as static/class variables are persisted across multiple test cases. Please see [here](https://leetcode.com/faq/#different-output) for more details.
```

-----------

## Thought:
